resources/articles/top_bottom/skin_monotonic.md, before:

Monotonic Top/Bottom Order
====
Normally, Cura orders top/bottom lines such that the travel distance between them is small. If this setting is enabled, it will order the top/bottom lines such that adjacent lines are always printed overlapping in the same direction.

Due to the shape of the bead, 3D printed lines overlap slightly with the adjacent lines. The monotonic ordering ensures that the overlap is always in the same direction. This helps to make the shape of each line more consistent, resulting in a smoother looking surface.

<!--screenshot {
"image_path": "skin_monotonic_disabled.gif",
"models": [
    {
        "script": "yen.scad",
        "transformation": ["scale(0.5)"]
    }
],
"camera_position": [0, 0, 130],
"settings": {
    "wall_line_count": 1,
    "skin_outline_count": 0,
    "travel_compensate_overlapping_walls_enabled": false,
    "skin_monotonic": false
},
"layer": 1,
"line": [29, 45, 61, 77, 93, 109, 125, 141, 157, 161, 177, 193, 199, 211, 231, 246, 262, 280, 296, 312, 326, 342, 358, 374, 397, 417, 433, 449, 464, 480, 499],
"delay": 125,
"colours": 32
}-->
<!--screenshot {
"image_path": "skin_monotonic_enabled.gif",
"models": [
    {
        "script": "yen.scad",
        "transformation": ["scale(0.5)"]
    }
],
"camera_position": [0, 0, 130],
"settings": {
    "wall_line_count": 1,
    "skin_outline_count": 0,
    "travel_compensate_overlapping_walls_enabled": false,
    "skin_monotonic": true
},
"layer": 1,
"line": [31, 47, 63, 77, 93, 109, 115, 131, 147, 163, 181, 197, 213, 229, 244, 263, 281, 296, 319, 340, 356, 372, 379, 395, 411, 427, 443, 459, 475, 491, 507, 511],
"delay": 125,
"colours": 32
}-->
![Not a monotonic order](../images/skin_monotonic_disabled.gif)
![Monotonic order](../images/skin_monotonic_enabled.gif)

The surface looks more consistent with a monotonic order because the adjacent lines layer on top of each other in the same direction. This causes the surface to reflect light in the same direction. As a result, the shimmer of the surface is completely smooth, instead of some parts of the surface shimmering under a different angle than others.

Commit message:

Better flow of story, and more tips on pairing with other settings

resources/articles/top_bottom/skin_monotonic.md, after:

Monotonic Top/Bottom Order
====
Normally, Cura orders top/bottom lines such that the travel distance between them is small. If this setting is enabled, it will order the top/bottom lines such that adjacent lines are always printed overlapping in the same direction.

When printing top/bottom lines, the lines usually overlap a bit with the lines next to them, because the shape of a line is not a perfect rectangle. This overlap gives the lines a slight slope, causing them to reflect light differently in different directions. If adjacent lines overlap differently, this reflection changes. You can see this in the final result. It gives different areas of the surface a different shine. Printing in a monotonic order ensures that the overlap is the same on the entire surface, so there is no difference in how it reflects light. This makes the surface look more consistent and smooth.

<!--screenshot {
"image_path": "skin_monotonic_disabled.gif",
"models": [
    {
        "script": "yen.scad",
        "transformation": ["scale(0.5)"]
    }
],
"camera_position": [0, 0, 130],
"settings": {
    "wall_line_count": 1,
    "skin_outline_count": 0,
    "travel_compensate_overlapping_walls_enabled": false,
    "skin_monotonic": false
},
"layer": 1,
"line": [29, 45, 61, 77, 93, 109, 125, 141, 157, 161, 177, 193, 199, 211, 231, 246, 262, 280, 296, 312, 326, 342, 358, 374, 397, 417, 433, 449, 464, 480, 499],
"delay": 125,
"colours": 32
}-->
<!--screenshot {
"image_path": "skin_monotonic_enabled.gif",
"models": [
    {
        "script": "yen.scad",
        "transformation": ["scale(0.5)"]
    }
],
"camera_position": [0, 0, 130],
"settings": {
    "wall_line_count": 1,
    "skin_outline_count": 0,
    "travel_compensate_overlapping_walls_enabled": false,
    "skin_monotonic": true
},
"layer": 1,
"line": [31, 47, 63, 77, 93, 109, 115, 131, 147, 163, 181, 197, 213, 229, 244, 263, 281, 296, 319, 340, 356, 372, 379, 395, 411, 427, 443, 459, 475, 491, 507, 511],
"delay": 125,
"colours": 32
}-->
![Not a monotonic order](../images/skin_monotonic_disabled.gif)
![Monotonic order, always from the bottom-right corner](../images/skin_monotonic_enabled.gif)

The monotonic order will slightly increase the length of travel moves, but this effect is very minimal. It only has a visual effect on the print. There are no mechanical advantages to the monotonic ordering.

To achieve a smooth surface, consider pairing this setting with setting the [Combing Mode](../travel/retraction_combing.md) to avoid skin, and perhaps to enable [Z Hops](../travel/retraction_hop.md). Alternatively you could also enable [ironing](ironing_enabled.md), but that completely overrides the usefulness of this setting. Ironing has its own [monotonic option](ironing_monotonic.md).
